README.md, before:

# Natural

[![Build Status](https://github.com/Ecodev/natural/workflows/main/badge.svg)](https://github.com/Ecodev/natural/actions)
[![Total Downloads](https://img.shields.io/npm/dt/@ecodev/natural.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@ecodev/natural)
[![Latest Stable Version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@ecodev/natural.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@ecodev/natural)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/npm/l/@ecodev/natural.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@ecodev/natural)
[![Join the chat at https://gitter.im/Ecodev/natural](https://badges.gitter.im/Ecodev/natural.svg)](https://gitter.im/Ecodev/natural)

This project is a collection of Angular Material components and various utilities classes for Angular projects.

## Install

```bash
yarn add @ecodev/natural
```

## Development

The most useful commands for development are:

- `yarn dev` to start a development server
- `yarn build-demo` to build the docs locally (it will be published automatically by GitHub Actions)
- `git tag -am 1.2.3 1.2.3 && git push` to publish the lib to npm (via GitHub Actions `release` job)

### i18n

This library ship its own translations in the folder `i18n/`. Those translations can then be used
in the consuming applications.

#### Marking text for translation

All text marked for translation must use the "namespace" natural. This is done via the _meaning_
of the translation. So something like:

```html
<p i18n="natural|">My text to translate</p>
```

```ts
const message = $localize`:natural|:My text to translate`;
```

This is to avoid collision between the translation of natural and the consuming application.

#### Extraction

The following command will extract all translations. Then you must double-check the content of
`projects/natural/i18n/` and commit only those files.

```sh
yarn i18n-extract
```

Once pushed, Weblate will be notified via a webhook, and translators can translate in each language.

#### Adding language

Configure new languages in `angular.json` in two locations:

- `projects.demo.i18n.locales`
- `projects.natural.architect.xliffmerge.options.xliffmergeOptions.languages`

## Components

### Natural Search

This is an Angular component to search for things via configurable facets. Facets may be
configured to use one of the built-in component, or a custom component to input values.

See the component in action on [the demo page](https://ecodev.github.io/natural).

#### Prior work

While the implementation is entirely different, [VisualSearch.js
](https://github.com/documentcloud/visualsearch/) was an important inspiration.

Commit message:

Drop i18n extraction workflow #8020
Since Angular 11 `ng extract-i18n` will extract strings
from project sources and also all libraries sources. Both
for template and code usages. This is confirmed officially in
https://github.com/angular/angular/issues/29536#issuecomment-771949744.

So we must not have an extracting mechanism in Natural itself, because
otherwise we would duplicate Natural strings in Weblate, once in
Weblate's Natural project and once in Weblate's OKpilot project.

Instead Natural will do nothing at all, and each project will have
to translate Natural strings independently in Weblate.

The workflow is easier, but it brings a slight overhead of work for
translators across projects.

README.md, after:

# Natural

[![Build Status](https://github.com/Ecodev/natural/workflows/main/badge.svg)](https://github.com/Ecodev/natural/actions)
[![Total Downloads](https://img.shields.io/npm/dt/@ecodev/natural.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@ecodev/natural)
[![Latest Stable Version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@ecodev/natural.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@ecodev/natural)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/npm/l/@ecodev/natural.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@ecodev/natural)
[![Join the chat at https://gitter.im/Ecodev/natural](https://badges.gitter.im/Ecodev/natural.svg)](https://gitter.im/Ecodev/natural)

This project is a collection of Angular Material components and various utilities classes for Angular projects.

## Install

```bash
yarn add @ecodev/natural
```

## Development

The most useful commands for development are:

- `yarn dev` to start a development server
- `yarn build-demo` to build the docs locally (it will be published automatically by GitHub Actions)
- `git tag -am 1.2.3 1.2.3 && git push` to publish the lib to npm (via GitHub Actions `release` job)

### i18n

This library is ready to be translated, but it does not ship translations. It is up to the consuming
application to extract and translate strings.

#### Marking text for translation

All text marked for translation must use the "namespace" natural. This is done via the _meaning_
of the translation. So something like:

```html
<p i18n="natural|">My text to translate</p>
```

```ts
const message = $localize`:natural|:My text to translate`;
```

This is to avoid collision between the translation of natural and the consuming application.

## Components

### Natural Search

This is an Angular component to search for things via configurable facets. Facets may be
configured to use one of the built-in component, or a custom component to input values.

See the component in action on [the demo page](https://ecodev.github.io/natural).

#### Prior work

While the implementation is entirely different, [VisualSearch.js
](https://github.com/documentcloud/visualsearch/) was an important inspiration.
